Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.
A programming language is a formal language, which comprises a set of instructions used
to produce various kinds of output.



What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.

The Java Development Kit (JDK) is a software development environment used for developing Java applications and applets.
 It includes the Java Runtime Environment (JRE), an interpreter/loader (java), a compiler (javac), an archiver (jar),
 a documentation generator (javadoc) and other tools needed in Java development.



What is IDE?
A.An integrated development environment (IDE) is a software suite that consolidates basic tools required
to write and test software.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. Eclipse, Intellij , NetBeans
Explain the entire java life cycle.
A.
There are three main stages in the life cycle of a java program. They are:

Editing the program
Compiling the source code
Executing the byte code
what is class?
A.  A class is a user defined blueprint or prototype from which objects are created.
What is object?
A. An object is an instance of a class.

What is the entry point of an application?
A. An application entry point identifies a resource that is an access point to an application. Application
entry points are used to control users' access to different versions of an application that is deployed on a platform.
Why main is static?
A. This is neccesary because main() is called by the JVM before any objects are made.
 Since it is static it can be directly invoked via the class.
Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A.The Object class, which is stored in the java.lang package, is the ultimate superclass of all Java classes
What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A. Path is an environment variable which is used by the operating system to find the executables.
 Classpath is an environment variable which is used by the Java compiler to find the path, of classes
What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A. Main difference is methods of a Java interface are implicitly abstract and cannot have implementations.
A Java abstract class can have instance methods that implements a default behavior.
Variables declared in a Java interface is by default final. An abstract class may contain non-final variables.
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A. There are two ways you can achieve this. 1) Either you extend / implement the Abstract class / interface
in a new class, create the object of this new class and then use this object as per your need.
 2) The Compiler allows you to create anonymous objects of the interfaces in your code.
what is Access Specifier?
A. regulate access to classes, fields and methods in Java.
What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A. Object oriented programming. abstraction, encapsulation, inheritance, and polymorphism
Abstraction-- a process of hiding the implementation details from the user.
Encapsulation--s a mechanism of wrapping the data (variables) and code acting on the data (methods)
 together as a single unit.
Inheritance-- is a mechanism wherein a new class is derived from an existing class.
Polymorphism-- is a concept by which we can perform a single action in different ways.
What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A.  is a mechanism to encapsulate a group of classes.
java.lang package is imported by default.
What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A. application programming interface (API) is a list of all classes
that are part of the Java development kit (JDK).
Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A. no, because one subclass cannot have two superclass.
What is method overloading and when it happens?
A. Overloading occurs when two or more methods in one class have the same method name but different parameters.
 Overriding means having two methods with the same method name and parameters
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A. An exception object is an instance of an exception class. It gets created and handed to the Java runtime when an exceptional event occurred that disrupted the normal flow of the application. This is
 called “to throw an exception” because in Java you use the keyword “throw” to hand the exception to the runtime.
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A. The static keyword is used in java mainly for memory management. It is used with variables, methods, blocks and nested class. It is a keyword that are used for share the same variable or method of a given class.
This is used for a constant variable or a method that is the same for every instance of a class.
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A. final is a non-access modifier applicable only to a variable, a method or a class.Following are different contexts where final is used.
 When a variable is declared with final keyword, its value can't be modified, essentially, a constant.
What is final, finally and finalize?
A. Final class can't be inherited, final method can't be overridden and final variable value can't be changed.
 Finally is used to place important code, it will be executed whether exception is handled or not.
 Finalize is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected.
What is a constructor ?
A. A constructor in Java is a block of code similar to a method that's
called when an instance of an object is created.
Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A. yes
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A.the default constructor
What is "this" keyword in java ?
A. THIS is a reference variable in Java that refers to the current object.
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A. It is used inside a sub-class method definition to call a method defined in the super class. Private methods of the super-class cannot be called.
 Only public and protected methods can be called by the super keyword. It is also used by class constructors to invoke constructors of its parent class.
What is JVM stand for ?
A.Java virtual machine
Is JVM platform independent?
A. yes
What version of java are you using?
A. version 8
What is JAR stand for ?
A.Java ARchive
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A. JVM actually runs Java bytecode.
JDK is what you need to compile Java source code.
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A. Java Runtime Environment is used to provide runtime environment.It is the implementation of JVM.
It physically exists.It contains set of libraries + other files that JVM uses at runtime.
What is compile time and run time?
A. The source code must be compiled into machine code in order to become and executable program. This compilation process is referred to as compile time.
 A compiled program can be opened and run by a user. When an application is running, it is called runtime.
What is heap?
A. The heap is the runtime data area from which memory for all class instances and arrays is allocated.
How java manage it's memory?
A. The JVM loads the code, verifies the code, executes the code, manages memory (this includes allocating memory from the Operating System (OS), managing
 Java allocation including heap compaction and removal of garbage objects) and finally provides the runtime environment.
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A. StringBuffer is mutable means one can change the value of the object .
The object created through StringBuffer is stored in the heap. StringBuffer has the same methods as the StringBuilder ,
 but each method in StringBuffer is synchronized that is StringBuffer is thread safe .
What is Singleton class?
A. a singleton class is a class that can have only one object (an instance of the class) at a time.
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A. Serialization is a process of converting an object into a sequence of bytes which can be persisted to a disk or database or can be sent through streams.
The reverse process of creating object from sequence of bytes is called deserialization.
when to use transient variable in java?
A. transient is a variables modifier used in serialization. At the time of serialization,
if we don't want to save value of a particular variable in a file, then we use transient keyword
Difference between while and do..while loop?
A.The most important difference between while and do-while loop is that in do-while , the block of code is executed at least once, even though the condition given is false.
 In While loop, the condition is first tested and then the block of code is executed if the test result is true.
What is Enum?
A.A Java Enum is a special Java type used to define collections of constants.
What is Iterator?
 A. Iterator takes the place of Enumeration in the Java collections framework.
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A. it depends
Why is String Immutable in Java?
 A. The string is Immutable in Java because String objects are cached in String pool
What is constructor chaining in Java?
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A. both the serial and parallel collectors cause a stop-the-world during the GC. a serial collector is a default copying collector which uses only one GC thread for the GC operation,
 while a parallel collector uses multiple GC threads for the GC operation
What is JIT stands for?
A. just in time
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A. Java objects reside in an area called the heap. ... When the heap becomes full, garbage is collected.
 During the garbage collection objects that are no longer used are cleared, thus making space for new objects.
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A. no
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A. Heap memory is used by all the
parts of the application whereas stack memory is used only by one thread of execution.
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A. Reflection in Java is the ability to examine and/or modify the properties or behavior of an object at run-time. Reflection makes it possible to inspect classes, fields and methods at runtime,
without knowing the names of the classes, methods etc. at compile time.
what is multithreading in java?
A.  The main purpose of multithreading is to provide simultaneous execution of two or more parts of a program to maximum utilize the CPU time.
A multithreaded program contains two or more parts that can run concurrently.
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A. Synchronized keyword in Java is used to
provide mutually exclusive access to a shared resource with multiple threads in Java.
What is Framework?
A. frameworks generally refer to broad software development platforms,
the term can also be used to describe a specific framework within a larger programming environment.
What are the testing Framework available in java?
A. TestNG, Junit
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
A.TestNG and JUnit supports parameterized test but differ in the way they define the parameter value.
What are the dependencies for this project?
A. Dependencies are the relationships of the preceding tasks to the succeeding tasks.
what is dependency injection in java?
A. A framework class, usually called the dependency container, could analyze the dependencies of this class. With this analysis it is able to create
an instance of the class and inject the objects into the defined dependencies, via Java reflection.
What is static binding and dynamic binding?
A. Static binding in Java occurs during compile time while dynamic binding occurs during runtime.








